<DOC>
<DOCNO> APW19981029.0570 </DOCNO>
<DOCTYPE> NEWS </DOCTYPE>
<TXTTYPE> NEWSWIRE </TXTTYPE>
<TEXT>
Hurricane Mitch cut through the Honduran coast like a ripsaw Thursday, 
its devastating winds whirling for a third day through resort islands 
and mainland communities. At least 32 people were killed and widespread 
flooding prompted more than 150,000 to seek higher ground. Mitch, 
once among the century's most powerful hurricanes, weakened today 
as it blasted this Central American nation, bringing downpours that 
flooded at least 50 rivers. It also kicked up huge waves that pounded 
seaside communities. The storm's power was easing and by 1200 GMT, 
it had sustained winds of 80 mph (130 kph), down from 100 mph (160 
kph) around midnight and well below its 180 mph (290 kph) peak of 
early Tuesday. After remaining virtually stationary for more than 
a day, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Thursday the center 
of the 350-mile-wide (560-kilometer-wide) storm had moved slightly 
to the south but remained just off the Honduran coast. Hurricane-force 
winds whirled up to 30 miles (50 kilometers) from the center, with 
rain-laden tropical storm winds extending well beyond that. Caught 
near the heart of the storm were the Bay Islands, about 25 miles (40 
kilometers) off Honduras' coast and popular with divers and beachcombers. 
``The hurricane has destroyed almost everything,'' said Mike Brown, 
a resident of Guanaja Island, 20 miles (32 kilometers) off the coast. 
``Few houses have remained standing.'' Honduran officials said 14 
people had died on that small island alone, and at least nine had 
died elsewhere in the country. More than 72,000 people had been evacuated 
to shelters. Nine other deaths had been reported elsewhere in the 
region by early Thursday _ more than a day after Mitch drifted to 
just off the coast and seemed to park there. An American was thrown 
from his boat south of Cancun, Mexico, on Monday and was presumed 
dead. Eight others died in Nicaragua in flooding. Honduran officials 
said more than 200 towns and villages had been isolated by the storm, 
left without power, telephones or clean drinking water. Agriculture 
Minister Pedro Arturo Sevilla said crucial grain, citrus and banana 
crops had been damaged ``and the economic future of Honduras is uncertain.'' 
Rain-swollen rivers knocked out bridges and roads, isolating La Ceiba, 
a coastal city of 40,000 people located 80 miles (128 kilometers) 
from the Bay Islands. About 10,000 residents fled to crowded shelters 
in schools, churches and firehouses. While supplies of food and gasoline 
seemed to hold up, drivers worried about the coming days formed long 
lines to fill their tanks at gas stations and some supermarkets took 
measures to limit panic buying. La Ceiba officials appealed for pure 
water for those in shelters and some residents set out plastic buckets 
to collect rainwater. Only a few hotels and offices with their own 
generators had electricity. Wind-whipped waves almost buried some 
houses near the shore. People evacuated low-lying houses by wading 
through chest-deep water with sodden bags of belongings on their heads. 
In neighboring Belize, most of the 75,000 residents of coastal Belize 
City had left by Wednesday, turning the country's largest city into 
a ghost town. Police and soldiers patrolled the streets, and a few 
people wandered amid the boarded-up houses. The cable television company 
was broadcasting only The Weather Channel. With the storm seemingly 
anchored off Honduras, officials in Mexico to the north eased emergency 
measures on the Caribbean coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, where hundreds 
of people remained in shelters as a precaution Wednesday night. More 
than 20,000 tourists had abandoned Cancun and nearby resort areas, 
leaving hotels at about 20 percent of capacity. Houston accountant 
Kathy Montgomery said that she and her friend Nina Devries had tried 
to leave Cancun but found all the flights full. ``It's been horrible,'' 
said Montgomery, as she and her friend drank cocktails at an outdoor 
restaurant. ``We couldn't go out on a boat, we couldn't go snorkeling. 
``Even Carlos' N Charlie's and Senor Frog's are closed,'' she said 
dejectedly, referring to two restaurants. ``Some vacation.'' The U.S. 
Agency for International Development sent two helicopters each to 
Belize and Honduras to help in search, rescue and relief efforts. 
At its peak, Mitch was the fourth-strongest Caribbean hurricane in 
this century, behind Gilbert in 1988, Allen in 1980 and the Labor 
Day hurricane of 1935. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

