<DOC>
<DOCNO> APW19981105.1220 </DOCNO>
<DOCTYPE> NEWS </DOCTYPE>
<TXTTYPE> NEWSWIRE </TXTTYPE>
<TEXT>
Better information from Honduras' ravaged countryside enabled officials 
to lower the confirmed death toll from Hurricane Mitch from 7,000 
to about 6,100 on Thursday, but leaders insisted the need for help 
was growing. President Carlos Flores declared Hurricane Mitch had 
set back Honduras' development by 50 years. He urged the more than 
1.5 million Hondurans affected by the storm to help with the recovery 
effort. ``The county is semi-destroyed and awaits the maximum effort 
and most fervent and constant work of every one of its children,'' 
he said. In the capital, Tegucigalpa, Mexican rescue teams began searching 
for avalanche victims. Honduran doctors dispensed vaccinations to 
prevent disease outbreaks in shelters crammed with refugees. As of 
Thursday, Mitch had killed 6,076 people in Honduras _ down from officials' 
earlier estimate of 7,000. The numbers of missing dropped from an 
estimated 11,000 to 4,621, Government Minister Delmer Urbizo said. 
``We have more access to places affected by the storm,'' Urbizo explained. 
``Until now, we have had a short amount of time and few resources 
to get reliable information.'' In Nicaragua, around 2,000 people were 
killed, most of those swept away when a volcano crater lake collapsed 
a week ago. El Salvador reported 239 dead; Guatemala said 194 of its 
people had been killed. Six people died in southern Mexico and seven 
in Costa Rica. Aid groups and governments have called for other countries 
to send medicine, water, canned food, roofing materials and equipment 
to help deliver supplies. In Washington on Thursday, President Bill 
Clinton ordered dlrs 30 million in Defense Department equipment and 
services and dlrs 36 million in food, fuel and other aid be sent to 
Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. The White House also 
said Clinton was dispatching Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al 
Gore, to Central America on a mission to show the U.S. commitment 
to providing humanitarian relief. Hillary Rodham Clinton also will 
travel to the region, visiting Nicaragua and Honduras on Nov. 16. 
She later will stop in El Salvador and Guatemala before continuing 
on to Haiti and the Dominican Republic for a visit that had been canceled 
due to Hurricane Georges, which struck the Caribbean in October. Mitch, 
which sat off the Honduran coast for several days last week, destroyed 
scores of Central American communities before moving northwest. The 
weakened storm crossed southern Florida on Thursday, damaging mobile 
homes and buildings and injuring at least seven people. Countries 
overwhelmed by the storm's devastation have only just begun to calculate 
the damage. Honduran authorities still don't know how many shelters 
have been set up across the Central American country. Surveyors have 
yet to evaluate roughly 10 percent of the most affected areas _ the 
departments of Cortes, Atlantida, Colon and Yoro in the north, southern 
Choluteca and Valle, and the central department of Francisco Morazan, 
which includes the capital. Numbers still can vary wildly. The estimated 
number of homeless dropped from 580,000 to 569,000 Thursday. Mitch 
damaged or destroyed at least 90 bridges on major highways, including 
most spans on Highway 5, the main north-south route, officials said. 
Urbizo said Honduran officials hoped the scale of need in next-door 
Nicaragua wouldn't overshadow Honduras' plight. ``Our problem is that 
all of the country has been affected,'' he said. Thursday's relief 
operations paled in comparison to the scope of the disaster. A total 
of 14 helicopter relief missions were delivering aid to stricken towns, 
said Col. Roger Antonio Caceres of the government's Operation Mitch 
emergency response task force. ``We can manage with the number of 
aircraft we have because there is little to distribute,'' Caceres 
said. More help was on the way. Mexico was sending 700 tons of food, 
11 tons of medicine, at least 12 helicopters, four cargo planes and 
475 soldiers to help in relief operations. The United States committed 
19 Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters, two C-27 aircraft and one C-130 
cargo plane. France said it was sending 250 rescue workers to Central 
America, along with a ship loaded with construction material and equipment. 
The U.N. World Food Program said Thursday it was diverting ships, 
some already at sea, to rush their cargoes of donated food to Central 
America. It also was pulling food from warehouses at its base in Rome, 
probably for delivery by emergency relief flights, spokesman Trevor 
Rowe said. ``We're trying to move food as fast as possible to help 
people as soon as possible,'' Rowe said. Searches for the missing 
continued, and some decomposed bodies, once found, were being buried 
in common graves. About 100 victims had been buried around Tegucigalpa, 
Mayor Nahum Valladeres said. In the flood-ravaged Tegucigalpa neighborhood 
of Nueva Esperanza, Mexican military rescuers loaded search dogs on 
their backs and forded a muddy river to look for people believed buried 
in a 200-foot (60-meter) avalanche that occurred last Friday. Dozens 
of homes were swept into the river. ``This is the first place we've 
been'' with the dogs, Honduran army Maj. Freddy Diaz Celaya said. 
``From here we'll continue searching downriver.'' Concerned that crowded 
shelter conditions could produce outbreaks of hepatitis, respiratory 
infections and other ailments, the Health Ministry announced an inoculation 
campaign, especially for children. Doctors volunteering at a shelter 
housing 4,000 people at Tegucigalpa's Polytechnic Development Institute 
said they'd heard of the campaign but had yet to receive word or medicines 
from the Health Ministry. ``We have to vaccinate the children,'' said 
Dr. Mario Soto, who has treated at least 300 children at the shelter 
for diarrhea, conjunctivitis and bacterial infections. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

