<DOC>
<DOCNO> APW19981022.0269 </DOCNO>
<DOCTYPE> NEWS </DOCTYPE>
<TXTTYPE> NEWSWIRE </TXTTYPE>
<TEXT>
King Norodom Sihanouk has declined requests to chair a summit of Cambodia's 
top political leaders, saying the meeting would not bring any progress 
in deadlocked negotiations to form a government. Cambodian leader 
Hun Sen's ruling party and the two-party opposition had called on 
the monarch to lead top-level talks, but disagreed on its location. 
``Papa will not preside over any summit meeting between the three 
parties, whether it is held in Phnom Penh or Beijing, because such 
a meeting will certainly achieve no result,'' Sihanouk wrote in an 
Oct. 17 letter to his son, Prince Norodom Ranariddh, leader of the 
senior opposition FUNCINPEC party. A copy of the letter was obtained 
Thursday. In it, the king called on the three parties to make compromises 
to end the stalemate: ``Papa would like to ask all three parties to 
take responsibility before the nation and the people.'' Hun Sen used 
Thursday's anniversary of a peace agreement ending the country's civil 
war to pressure the opposition to form a coalition government with 
his party. ``Only those who want to prolong the anarchy and instability 
prevent efforts to set up a new government,'' Hun Sen said in a televised 
speech marking the anniversary of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords. Hun 
Sen's party won 64 of the 122 seats in parliament in July's national 
election, but not the two-thirds majority necessary to form a government 
on its own. Opposition parties led by Ranariddh and former finance 
minister Sam Ram Rainsy have refused to enter into a coalition with 
Hun Sen until their allegations of election fraud have been thoroughly 
investigated. International monitors said the election was relatively 
free and fair. Hun Sen said his current government would remain in 
power as long as the opposition refused to form a new one. Ranariddh 
and Sam Rainsy have remained outside the country since the Sept. 24 
ceremonial convening of parliament. Citing Hun Sen's threats to arrest 
opposition politicians following two alleged attempts on his life, 
Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have said they do not feel safe negotiating 
inside the country and asked the king to chair the summit at his residence 
in Beijing. Hun Sen has rejected the opposition's reservations, saying 
it would be inappropriate to hold a summit outside the country. Negotiations 
so far have proved fruitless except for the opening of parliament 
after a Sept. 22 summit led by the king. Hun Sen implied Thursday 
that the opposition failed to follow through on promises made at the 
summit. ``If those results are strictly respected, there seems no 
reason to hold another summit,'' Hun Sen said in a speech on the anniversary 
of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords. Sihanouk is reportedly set to fly 
to Beijing next month to receive medical treatment from his Chinese 
doctors. The 75-year-old monarch suffers from a variety ailments and 
periodically makes extended trips to Beijing. He was diagnosed with 
colon cancer in 1993, but it has since gone into remission. In September, 
thousands of people filled the streets of Phnom Penh to protest against 
the alleged election fraud. Hun Sen ordered police to break up the 
demonstrations. At least four demonstrators were killed by police, 
but the discovery of more than 20 bodies in the aftermath has prompted 
speculation that the death tally could be much higher. In his speech, 
Hun Sen blamed the violence on opposition leaders, saying the demonstrations 
instigated social and economic chaos. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

