<DOC>
<DOCNO> APW19981027.0491 </DOCNO>
<DOCTYPE> NEWS </DOCTYPE>
<TXTTYPE> NEWSWIRE </TXTTYPE>
<TEXT>
Cambodia's ruling party responded Tuesday to criticisms of its leader 
in the U.S. Congress with a lengthy defense of strongman Hun Sen's 
human rights record. The Cambodian People's Party criticized a non-binding 
resolution passed earlier this month by the U.S. House of Representatives 
calling for an investigation into violations of international humanitarian 
law allegedly committed by Hun Sen. Events mentioned in the resolution 
include Hun Sen's coup last year against his co-prime minister, Prince 
Norodom Ranariddh, and his violent crackdown in September against 
anti-government demonstrations. A copy of the resolution has since 
been submitted to the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. 
``The CPP would like to launch an appeal to U.S. senators to wisely 
and realistically consider this draft resolution and give justice 
to the CPP, Hun Sen and the Cambodian people by not approving it,'' 
the party said in a statement. It defended Hun Sen's ouster of Ranariddh 
as a proper response to the prince's attempts at the time to negotiate 
the defections of senior Khmer Rouge rebels. It also repeated claims 
that the prince's party had moved rebel soldiers into Phnom Penh, 
a contention that remains unproved. The killings of nearly 100 of 
Ranariddh's supporters documented by U.N. human rights workers in 
the aftermath of the coup were dismissed by the CPP as mostly fabrications 
meant to distort the political situation. Ranariddh and his core supporters 
did not return to Cambodia until a few months before an election in 
July this year that the ruling party narrowly won. Ranariddh and his 
opposition ally, Sam Rainsy, refused to accept the election results, 
alleging widespread intimidation and fraud by the CPP. When their 
claims were dismissed by a Hun Sen-friendly court, they rallied their 
supporters into the streets of Phnom Penh. After two weeks of tolerating 
the demonstrations, Hun Sen ordered a violent crackdown that resulted 
in the deaths of at least four protesters. U.N. human rights workers 
later discovered more than 20 bodies _ many bearing signs of torture 
_ in and around the capital, prompting speculation that the death 
toll could be much higher. The ruling party supported the police action 
in its statement, noting that public property was damaged by protesters 
and that grenades were thrown at Hun Sen's home after Sam Rainsy suggested 
in a speech that the U.S. government should fire cruise missiles at 
Hun Sen. The opposition claims the grenade attack was staged as an 
excuse to begin the crackdown. ``The leaders of illegal demonstrations 
are the ones who must bear responsibility for the consequences deriving 
from the protest,'' the CPP said Tuesday, referring to the deadly 
violence as ``minor incidents.'' The ruling party also reminded the 
United States that Washington supported a Cambodian exile government 
dominated by the brutal Khmer Rouge in the 1980s. The Khmer Rouge 
was responsible for the deaths of as many as 2 million people during 
the guerrilla group's 1975-79 rule of Cambodia. After a series of 
border clashes, the Khmer Rouge was ousted from power by an invading 
Vietnamese army that set up a surrogate Cambodian communist government 
later led by Hun Sen. The ruling party accused U.S. policy-makers 
of not taking timely action to save the Cambodian people from the 
Khmer Rouge. ``They must not make unjust accusations against those 
who led the struggle to liberate the people from genocide,'' it added. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

