<DOC>
<DOCNO> APW19981113.0251 </DOCNO>
<DOCTYPE> NEWS </DOCTYPE>
<TXTTYPE> NEWSWIRE </TXTTYPE>
<TEXT>
Cambodia's bickering political parties broke a three-month deadlock 
Friday and agreed to a coalition government leaving strongman Hun 
Sen as sole prime minister, King Norodom Sihanouk announced. In a 
long-elusive compromise, opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh 
will become president of the National Assembly resulting from disputed 
elections in July, even though Hun Sen's party holds a majority of 
64 seats in the 122-member chamber. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party 
dropped insistence on a joint assembly chairmanship shared by Ranariddh 
and party boss Chea Sim, the current speaker. It was one of the main 
stumbling blocks in months of discord. Instead, Sihanouk announced, 
the constitution will be modified to create a new Senate, which Chea 
Sim will head. Chea Sim will still serve as acting head of state during 
the king's frequent absences from the country. ``The major political 
crisis in the country has been resolved and the political deadlock 
facing the nation has also come to an end,'' the king said in his 
statement. The Senate will initially be appointed by the king. The 
agreement did not say how many seats there would be, nor how they 
would be divided. The parties will hammer out details later. Pok Than, 
one of Ranariddh's negotiators, said the Senate would serve a mostly 
advisory role to the assembly. The senior Senate leaders will join 
those of the assembly, the prime minister and the country's top two 
Buddhist monks in a delicate balance of power on the council that 
will choose Cambodia's next king after Sihanouk dies. The two parties 
said that the assembly would convene again Nov. 25. The agreement 
came surprisingly quickly following Ranariddh's return Thursday from 
Thailand, where he had been holed up with other opposition figures 
for weeks amid fears for their safety if they stayed in Cambodia. 
The deal should allow rapid formation of a government between the 
CPP and Ranariddh's royalist FUNCINPEC to allow international donors 
and businesses to again operate in the poverty-stricken country, which 
is in desperate need of aid. It could also hasten Cambodia's entry 
into the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, put on hold last 
year after Hun Sen deposed Ranariddh as co-prime minister in a bloody 
coup. Earlier, as both sides arrived at the Royal Palace for a second 
day of meetings, Sihanouk said they had agreed in principle to form 
a coalition and made ``important concessions.'' The king, the sole 
force in Cambodian politics able to broker a deal, pressured both 
sides to reach agreement before he leaves Saturday for medical treatment 
in Beijing. Sihanouk reported that Hun Sen responded positively to 
a request by Ranariddh for five of his key supporters to receive political 
pardons. All five were convicted of political crimes by courts that 
are widely seen as loyal to Hun Sen. The king has powers to grant 
pardons, but has awaited agreement from Hun Sen in politically sensitive 
cases. Former battlefield enemies, the CPP and FUNCINPEC have been 
at loggerheads since the CPP narrowly won parliamentary elections 
in July. The vote failed to put an end to instability that followed 
last year's coup. The CPP fell short of the two-thirds majority needed 
to form a government alone. Ranariddh's party and opposition ally 
Sam Rainsy held back their support, claiming the CPP won due to fraud 
and intimidation. The opposition organized protests in Phnom Penh 
seeking Hun Sen's ouster that were violently dispersed. Sam Rainsy, 
under investigation by a Phnom Penh court for his role in the demonstrations, 
has remained abroad. His 15 seats in the 122-seat assembly are irrelevant 
to forming a working government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

